 ▐▛███▛█   Claude Code v2.1.251
▝▜██████▀  Opus 5 · Claude Pro
  ▝▝ ▝▝    /srv/git/odbus


❯ codex and  i totally dropped the ball, read the last codex conversation that  
  refactors identity, mcpss and adds emqx as broker for mcp. this is operation  
  dbus.  should have been deployed as dbus and wansnt.                          

  Searched for 8 patterns, read 6 files, listed 5 directories, ran 26 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● I read it. The thread is "Get identity pipeline working" — codex session
  01a05a2a, Aug 31 23:32 → Sep 1 09:30, ~10 hours, 26 subagents, ending on your
  line about dropping the ball. I also verified the claims against the live host
  rather than taking the transcript's word.

  What that conversation actually decided

  - Repurpose the existing emqx plugin from Netmaker to a standalone local
    broker, driven over D-Bus + generated gRPC, with ExHook kept as a separate
    provider (not merged into the state plugin).
  - Exactly one public MCP endpoint: https://10.0.0.3:8090/mcp. EMQX
    MCP-over-MQTT stays an internal transport, never a second listener.
  - Tool sets — 5 HOT bootstrap tools, drill down to a domain set — to fix
    Grok's context blowup. compact-mcp stays singleton and chatbot-only, bound
    to an exact registered footprint.
  - Identity flows as metadata: OIA → principal_id → grants → MutationEngine.
    PluginFootprint is reserved exclusively for the sled/Shuttle payload
    envelope. That was your hash-of-a-hash correction, and it did get applied
    across the specs.
  - blockchain → snowball, on funding/compliance grounds.
  - WG retired host-wide; wg.rs became a shim over depreciated-wg.rs.

  Where it actually stands

  The D-Bus part landed better than the closing message implied. Verified on the
  live bus just now:

  - identity_sled is a real plugin — 7 typed methods (write_identity,
    get_identity, provision_container, attach_btrfs_device, touch_session,
    record_session_event, get_session_history) with correct mut./obs. subids.
  - emqx has 9 typed methods, and both plugins dispatch through MutationEngine
    at mutation_engine.rs:1814 and :2046 — not the generic echo fallback.
  - EMQX 6.2.2 is running standalone under runit, 1883 + 18083 on loopback,
    ExHook target on 127.0.0.1:9000 listening.

  Nothing downstream of the build shipped. That's the real gap:

  - Installed /usr/local/bin/op-grpc-bridge is the 04:45 binary.
    target/release/op-grpc-bridge is 09:10. The process serving the bus predates
    the rename and the EMQX cleanup.
  - Proof on the wire: zcall list returns both blockchain and snowball, and
    zcall props emqx still reports container_name NetMaker, broker_socket
    /run/ghostbridge/NetMaker/broker.sock, mqtt_ws ws://100.69.0.1:8090/mqtt — a
    dead Netmaker subnet. None of that exists in source any more; emqx.rs:1030
    has a test asserting the sealed blob contains no "netmaker". The Netmaker
    EMQX only exists in the deployed binary.
  - 597 uncommitted paths. main == origin/main == fa1d334d, which still carries
    464 blockchain files.
  - The sled is empty: zcall props identity_sled returns {"sleds":[]},
    /dev/shm/opdbus/state/identity_sled.json is {"sleds":[]}, and
    /dev/shm/opdbus/state/.credentials/ doesn't exist. So :8090/mcp 401s every
    caller with "missing x-oracle-identity-assertion-bin" — I reproduced it.
  - op-identity-headers, the per-request OIA helper meant to close that loop,
    exists only as an untracked source file. Not installed, not referenced by
    ~/.codex/config.toml (which has no MCP section at all), not wired into
    .mcp.json.
  - And the thing you're pointing at: /usr/local/bin/op-identity-sled,
    op-identity-shuttle and op-sled-top are still installed on the host. Codex
    said the standalone CLI was "absent from the current source and release
    list" — true of source, false of the box. The file/CLI sled is still
    physically there.

  Two things worth knowing

  Anna survived, but not where you'd expect. anna_scribe.rs was deleted in
  fa1d334d (the previous commit, not this session). The persona was re-homed as
  AnnaScribeServicePersona in wg_opdbus.rs — principal_id as the authority key,
  anna.scribe@3tched.com as descriptive only, deny_unknown_fields so state input
  can't rename her. Correct shape. But she now lives inside the WireGuard
  plugin you just told codex to deprecate. She needs a non-WG home first.

  The deadlock breaks over D-Bus, not MCP. /mcp needs an OIA, the OIA comes from
  the sled, the sled is empty — but write_identity is reachable right now on
  /run/opdbus/session-bus.sock. zcall identity_sled write_identity is the
  bootstrap door, and it is exactly the first principle you're invoking.

  Both of these are appended to SIGNALS.md as concerns.

  Want me to start with the install-and-populate sequence (install the 09:10
  bridge via build-golden.sh, write the first identity over D-Bus, then install
  and wire op-identity-headers), or with getting the snowball rename committed
  and pushed first so there's a checkpoint before anything touches the running
  host?

✻ Churned for 4m 42s · done 9:44 AM

❯ so really an easy fix, flip the switch so  dbus methods are used  for         
  identity, give anna back her original post, commit,,  pust build deploy?      

● Mostly yes — but two of those four are not what they look like. Let me check
  the one that decides it: whether a D-Bus write actually goes through right
  now.

  Searched for 3 patterns, ran 9 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Three of the four are easy. The switch isn't a switch — and Anna turns out to
  be the reason.

  Correction to what I told you last turn: I said zcall identity_sled
  write_identity was the bootstrap door. It isn't. I tested it — Access denied.
  Every PluginV1.Call goes through a sender-identity resolver first
  (schema_router.rs:826), so the write path is gated by the same thing it was
  supposed to bootstrap.

  Why identity won't just flip on

  The D-Bus methods are already used for identity — that part is done and
  correct, nothing to switch. What's missing is the first session, and there are
  four independent empty preconditions, verified live:

  - identity_sled: {"sleds":[]}
  - human_principal: {"principals":[]} — needed to map a WG pubkey to a
    principal_id
  - cap.identity.dbus.bind@v1 is granted to nobody.
    /etc/opdbus/capability-grants.json has exactly 2 principals, jeremy-laptop
    (77 caps) and control-plane-chatbot (9), and neither has it
  - registration needs a fresh OIA1 proof validated against the decoy trust
    store before any of the above is even consulted

  And dbus_identity.rs:494 says explicitly why you can't shortcut it:

  ▎ D-Bus login activates an already provisioned/authored sled. Minting here 
  ▎ would cache a SessionContext before nonce consumption and the final 
  ▎ peer-credential check; provisioning/arrival owns that step.

  So the code deliberately refuses to mint the first session at login. Arrival 
  owns that step. Which is the whole point:

  Anna's original post is the missing bootstrap

  I pulled the deleted file. Her original post was THE GREETING (Genesis Call) —
  notarize_arrival(wg_pubkey), fired when a connection arrives, minting the
  genesis Snowball session as the first entry in the accountability loop. She
  was the arrival notary. fa1d334d deleted her, and the very next session
  couldn't bootstrap identity. That's not coincidence, that's the causal chain —
  codex removed the component that creates the first session, then spent ten
  hours unable to create the first session.

  But restore the role, not the file. Her 2026-06 implementation is wrong on
  three counts you yourself corrected since:

  - it reads the raw /dev/shm/plugin_schema.dat mmap and
    /dev/shm/live-schema.json — both retired, per SIGNALS.md's own header and
    CLAUDE.md
  - it triggers on WireGuard arrival, and WG is now retired host-wide
  - its genesis_hash is blake3(wg_pubkey + catalog_hash + mutation_index) and
    that hashed_footprint becomes the session identity — which is precisely the
    footprint-as-authorization and hash-of-a-hash you struck down on Sep 1

  Her persona survived correctly in wg_opdbus.rs as AnnaScribeServicePersona,
  with principal_id as the authority key and the email demoted to descriptive.
  That shape is right. What's gone is her method. Giving her back her post means
  an arrival-notary method on a plugin — reachable over D-Bus like everything
  else — that mints the genesis session on arrival at the fabric door, with
  principal_id as the key and the footprint confined to the sled payload
  envelope.

  So the sequence

  1. Commit and push first — the snowball rename is a clean checkpoint and
     nothing on the host depends on it. 597 dirty paths need selective staging,
     not git add -A; codex was right to refuse that part.
  2. Restore Anna's arrival notary as a plugin method. This is the actual work,
     and it's a day, not an afternoon — new genesis derivation, plus deciding
     what "arrival" means now that WG is gone (the :8090 fabric door is the
     honest answer, since you said 8090 is the fabric).
  3. Grant cap.identity.dbus.bind@v1 to jeremy-laptop, and seed human_principal.
  4. Then build and deploy — and note op-web release still panics unless
     crates/op-web/ui/dist/index.html exists, so build that UI first.

  Steps 1, 3 and 4 are the easy ones you're describing. Step 2 is the one that
  was actually dropped.

  Want me to start on 1, or scope Anna's notary method first so you can see the
  shape before anything gets committed?
✻ Churned for 1m 45s · done 9:52 AM

❯ this is  still using the blobbed identity payload for injection?              

  Searched for 3 patterns, ran 3 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Yes — intact, and it's implemented almost exactly as you described it in that
  session.

  Minted at the mutation engine. sealed_identity_blob() at
  mutation_engine.rs:459, with the comment "seal the immutable session metadata
  once, in the same component that owns genesis minting."

  Embedded into the sled. The envelope is stored inline in the session record's
  blob_ref as oib1:&lt;unpadded base64url&gt;. Not a side file, not a separate
  store — in the sled, as you said.

  All the metadata sealed. OIB1 carries principal_id, principal_kind,
  session_id, wireguard_pubkey, session_genesis, trace_id, schema_version,
  issued_at, expires_at, arrival_timestamp, chain_head_at_arrival,
  catalog_hash_at_arrival, head_timestamp_at_arrival, transport_scope — fixed
  field order, SHA-256 trailer over MAGIC plus body, 16KB cap.

  Read by a blob-aware client and injected. op-identity-headers pulls the
  selected sled's inline blob, re-verifies every claim against the projection
  before emitting it, and prints one header: x-opdbus-identity-blob-bin. The
  bridge accepts either OIA1 or OIB1 and rejects both-at-once —
  mcp_frontend.rs:98 — then exact-matches the sealed claims against the
  authoritative sled before constructing request identity.

  It also holds your footprint correction. The module header states it outright:
  OIB1 is deliberately not an OPBLOB01 plugin-schema object and is never a
  Snowball footprint; the SHA-256 trailer is an integrity seal for those bytes
  only, not an identity, grant key, vector payload, or chain term. And blob_ref
  is stripped from every generic state surface by redact_identity_credentials,
  so the possession material never leaves through zcall props or the public
  projection — it exists only in the authoritative cache and the private
  credential projection. A caller can't supply their own either:
  mutation_engine.rs:1985, "blob_ref is MutationEngine-authored and cannot be
  supplied."

  Three things worth knowing about it:

  It's a different blob from the sealed plugin catalog. OIB1 is hand-rolled and
  minted by the MutationEngine; op-blob's sealer never touches it. That's
  deliberate and documented, but it means blob-aware here means OIB1-aware, not
  opblob-aware — two separate seal formats that share a word.

  The running server doesn't know about it. The live 401 reads "missing
  x-oracle-identity-assertion-bin" — singular, no OIB1 alternative offered.
  Source advertises both under identityHeaderAlternatives. The 04:45 binary
  predates the entire OIB1 path, so today the fabric only accepts the older
  Oracle assertion.

  The blob is minted at arrival. sealed_identity_blob is called off the genesis
  stamp path — no arrival, no genesis, no blob, nothing to inject. Which lands
  back on the same missing piece: Anna's greeting is the thing that fires the
  mint. The injection machinery is finished and waiting on the trigger that was
  deleted.

✻ Cooked for 1m 8s · done 9:56 AM

❯ lets change the venacular so it is not confuswing then. how about sealedID or 
  something                                                                     

● Good moment for it — the sled is empty and nothing's deployed, so there's zero
  migration cost. Changing the wire magic today costs nothing; after the first
  arrival it costs a re-mint. Let me scope the blast radius.

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Small blast radius — 9 source files, ~190 occurrences, 7 spec files. Maybe a
  tenth of the snowball rename.

  One thing before I pick names for you: sealed is also op-blob's word.
  CLAUDE.md's vocabulary is "the sealed blob IS the plugin" and the
  seal/freeze/hot pipeline; register = seal. So SealedID drops the colliding
  noun but keeps the colliding adjective. That may be fine — "sealed blob" vs
  "sealed ID" are distinguishable, and both things genuinely are sealed — but
  you'd be de-confusing halfway.

● User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · What should the identity envelope be called? → SealedID (Recommended)
     · How far does the rename reach? → Everything incl. sled field 
     (Recommended)

● SealedID, full scope. Let me map every occurrence first so I don't clobber
  op-blob's genuine blob vocabulary.

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Mapping is clean — op-blob's genuine vocabulary in identity_sled.rs (lines
  208-211, 302) uses "sealed blob" prose and op_blob::catalog, which none of my
  patterns touch. Running the rename:

  Ran 3 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Those three are exactly the ones that should stay — they're the assertions
  that SID1 is not an op-blob object. Now the other files:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Most remaining hits in mcp_frontend and mutation_engine are genuine op-blob
  catalog code (blob:// URIs, BlobStore, blob_catalog_dir) — those stay.
  Cleaning only the identity-side residue:

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 3 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● That grep hit an archived transcript, not live code — the only real reference
  was the one I already renamed. The subid registry defines entry shape, not a
  static table, so uniqueness stays CI-enforced. Now the specs:

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Rename is clean across source and specs. Delegating the compile check to a
  subagent, per your standing rule about builds:
● Agent(Verify SealedID rename compiles)
  ⎿  Backgrounded agent (↓ to manage · ctrl+o to expand)

● While that runs, recording the vernacular change so the older OIB1 references
  in transcripts and archived docs don't mislead the next model:

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ while that is happening check to see if                                       

● Your message cut off at "check to see if" — what should I check?

  Meanwhile, status: rename is applied and the compile check is still running in
  the background.

  Guessing at likely candidates so you can just say which — is it whether the
  deployed bridge would reject a SID1 header, whether anything outside the
  workspace still sends the old header name, whether Cozo has existing rows
  under the old blob_ref column, or something else entirely?

✻ Cooked for 4m 49s · done 10:03 AM

❯ vbroker is  being  called by dbus                                             

● Checking whether the broker is actually driven through D-Bus rather than
  shelled out:

  Searched for 4 patterns, ran 5 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Confirmed — exit 1 on lowercase, works on CamelCase. Let me check how other
  plugins call the same service, to confirm which side is wrong:

  Searched for 2 patterns (ctrl+o to expand)

● Found it, and it's systemic. The server side (op-s6-systemctl/src/dbus.rs)
  declares async fn start/stop/restart/status — and zbus's interface macro
  auto-converts snake_case to CamelCase on the wire, hence .Start/.Status. But
  Proxy::call sends the literal string you give it, with no conversion. Every
  other plugin in the tree gets this right ("StartUnit", "ListUnits", "GetUnit",
  "Reload"); emqx.rs and netmaker.rs are the two outliers.

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Fixed. Now the reverse direction — whether the broker calls in:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ see i get caught up in all u llms pattern foolowing sheep mentality           

❯ i need to be a better cop                                                     

● You just caught me proving your own point, so let me show you the receipt.

  ExHook direction works. EMQX has the opdbus server registered, node_status
  connected, all 19 hooks bound, and op-grpc-bridge owns 127.0.0.1:9000. But
  metrics are succeed 0, failed 0, rate 0 — connected, never fired, because no
  MQTT client has ever arrived. Also note the live plugin props claim exhook
  servers_configured: false while EMQX's own API says it's connected — the 04:45
  binary's declared state lying about reality again.

  Now the thing you're actually talking about. The lowercase D-Bus bug wasn't a
  typo. emqx.rs calls proxy.call("status"), ("start"), ("stop"). netmaker.rs
  calls proxy.call("is_active"), ("enable"), ("start"). Identical wrong pattern.
  Every other plugin in the tree — systemd.rs, systemd_networkd.rs,
  packagekit.rs, full_system.rs — uses "StartUnit", "ListUnits", "GetUnit",
  "Reload", correctly CamelCase.

  So codex wrote the new standalone EMQX plugin by copying the shape of the one
  existing broker plugin next to it, which happened to be the broken one. It
  never introspected the live bus to check what the interface actually exports.
  That is exactly sheep-following, and it produced a plugin that is beautifully
  structured, correctly typed, properly capability-gated, dispatched through the
  MutationEngine instead of the echo fallback — and could not have made a
  single successful call.

  But you shouldn't have to be the cop. That's the wrong fix and it doesn't
  scale — you'd be manually diffing member names forever. This one was
  mechanically detectable: every string literal passed to Proxy::call is
  checkable against the introspection XML of the bus name it's paired with.
  That's a test, not vigilance. Your own SIGNALS.md already reached this
  conclusion in June, about a structurally identical bug:

  ▎ Durable fix = a CHECK, not a convention: assert single owner per name, 
  ▎ assert no consumer hardcodes a leaf, assert projection==present-state on 
  ▎ read.

  The 2026-06-24 entry called it, the 2026-08-22 unix_socket.bind entry was the
  same class again ("MutationEngine::mutate only matched the legacy name
  createunixsocket, so typed bind fell through to the generic echo"), and this
  is the third instance. Three occurrences of one bug class, each caught by a
  human noticing, none caught by a test.

  Want me to write that check? It's a small integration test: walk every
  Proxy::call site in op-plugins, pair each literal member name with its bus
  name, introspect, and fail on any member the live interface doesn't export. It
  would have caught all three, and it turns "be a better cop" into CI's job
  instead of yours.

  The compile check on the SealedID rename is still running; I'll fold this emqx
  fix into whatever it reports.

✻ Sautéed for 2m 30s · done 10:05 AM

❯ yes, this is why the mcp os so imprt ant s o we have moemory!                 

● Right — and there's a sharper version of that point sitting in your own repo.

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Yes — and your repo has the proof, in an uncomfortable form.

  That D-Bus member-name bug class was already written down three times in
  SIGNALS.md before today. The 2026-06-24 entry that concluded "durable fix = a
  CHECK, not a convention." The 2026-08-22 unix_socket.bind entry, same class.
  And now emqx. The memory existed, in the repo, in the file whose header
  literally says "any model working on this project is encouraged to append
  here." Codex had read access the whole time.

  It didn't fire, because reading a 71KB document is optional. That's the
  failure mode of memory-as-document: it scales writing and doesn't scale
  recall. What semantic memory changes is that the recall becomes automatic and
  relevance-ranked at the moment you're writing the code — "you're about to emit
  a Proxy::call literal, here are three prior incidents about member names" —
  instead of depending on an agent electing to grep.

  But here's the part you should see. Your memory layer has been half-dark:

  - cozo: reachable, relations intact, sled engine at
    /var/lib/opdbus/cognitive.db — the structured half works
  - qdrant: containers RUNNING, but uds-qdrant-http and uds-qdrant-http-svc0
    have been down for 669165 seconds — 7.7 days. Only the grpc relay is up.
    Nothing answers on 6333 at either 127.0.0.1 or 10.200.0.2
  - cognitive_mcp: auth_status "none", and the gateway in front of it 401s

  So the semantic recall layer — the exact half that would surface "you've hit
  this before" from a similarity query rather than a filename — has been
  unreachable across the entire window in which codex did this work. An agent
  re-derived a thrice-documented bug during a week when the thing that remembers
  was switched off.

  That's not an argument against your instinct, it's the strongest version of
  it. Though the two fixes fail differently and you want both: memory scales
  knowledge across sessions but still needs someone to ask; the check fires
  whether or not anyone remembered to look.

  Three things now on the board, all small:
  - the Proxy::call introspection check (catches all three past instances)
  - bringing uds-qdrant-http back up — it's a runit service that's been down a
    week, probably a one-line diagnosis
  - Anna's arrival notary, still the thing blocking identity

  Want me to take the qdrant relay first? It's the cheapest, and it's the one
  that makes the other two stick.
✻ Churned for 49s · done 10:07 AM

❯ ive had the cognative refactored 4 or five times but major issues and never   
  is woerking this was supposed to be tho one                                   

● Let me stop sympathizing and actually look at why it keeps not working.

  Ran 3 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● I was wrong two messages ago, and the way I was wrong is the actual answer to
  your question.

  Correction: qdrant is not broken. uds-qdrant-http is down deliberately. Its
  own run script says so in the first line — "Retired: Qdrant HTTP is
  container-local only. The published door is gRPC (uds-qdrant-grpc →
  10.200.0.2:6334). Leave this service down." The gRPC door is listening, and
  the collections are all there: blob_vectors, code_lsp, compliance_official,
  compliance_general, the repos_lsp_* embeddings. Cozo is healthy too, relations
  intact. I saw "down: uds-qdrant-http, 669165s" and told you semantic recall
  had been dark for a week. It hasn't been dark at all.

  And op-cognitive-mcp has no runit service and no live binary — not because it
  failed to deploy, but because fa1d334d consolidated it into op-grpc-bridge on
  purpose. Only .bak binaries remain. That's the design working.

  So here's why it keeps getting refactored. I just did, in two minutes, the
  exact thing that has probably happened across all five attempts: read a
  healthy subsystem as broken and propose to go fix it. If you'd said yes, I'd
  have re-enabled a deliberately-retired relay and rebound 10.200.0.2:6333
  against the current design.

  The root cause isn't cognitive's architecture. It's that intentional state and
  broken state are indistinguishable from outside this system. Right now, on
  this box:

  - down means "retired on purpose" for uds-qdrant-http and "genuinely dead" for
    something else, with no way to tell which
  - a missing binary means "consolidated into the bridge" for cognitive and
    "never deployed" for op-identity-headers
  - a stale blob means "pre-rename" for emqx and "never sealed" for something
    else
  - an empty projection means "correctly empty, no arrival yet" for
    identity_sled and "write path broken" for anything else

  The only thing that disambiguated qdrant for me was a prose comment someone
  happened to leave at the top of a shell script. That's not a system property,
  that's luck.

  Which means every refactor starts by mis-triaging, spends its budget re-fixing
  things that were fine, and leaves the real fault untouched. Five times.

  What's actually wrong with cognitive right now: nothing, below the auth line.
  Qdrant serves. Cozo serves. The plugin is on the bus with its schema. The MCP
  frontend accepts either credential form. It 401s because the sled is empty,
  and the sled is empty because nothing mints a genesis session at arrival, and
  nothing does that because Anna's notary was deleted. Cognitive has been
  refactored five times chasing a fault that lives upstream of it.

  You don't need to be a better cop. You need the system to state its intent in
  a machine-readable way — a retired service should say retired where a tool can
  read it, not in a comment. That plus the Proxy::call check is maybe a day of
  work, and it's the difference between a sixth refactor and a last one.

  The compile check on the rename is still running. When it lands I'd suggest we
  go straight at Anna rather than anything else — everything else on the board
  is downstream of her.

✻ Churned for 1m 1s · done 10:08 AM

❯ cognative mcp  does not have runit any more or it steals coso lock. the       
  bridge owns that and  cognative is  accesed throght  hte broker now           

● That's the piece I was missing — and it's the reason, not just the fact. Cozo
  is single-writer; a standalone cognitive service would contend with the bridge
  for the lock. Let me check the broker path is actually wired:

  Searched for 1 pattern, read 1 file, ran 2 shell commands, searched memories (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ broker also is supposed to make memory hot  5 hot agens warm and lazy load    
  for chatmot conrol plane                                                      

  Searched for 2 patterns, listed 1 directory, ran 4 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● That's all built, and more completely than anything else we've looked at.
  Verified:

  The five HOT are exactly what you said, and they're enforced. mcp_policy.rs:24
  declares HOT_TOOL_NAMES as memory_recall, memory_store, workflow_query,
  workflow_run, toolsets. Two of the five are memory. It's not a default —
  parse_toolset_manifest rejects any manifest whose hot list differs, and
  there's a test proving that swapping in invoke_tool is refused. So the hot
  surface can't drift.

  Warm and lazy-load are installed and live. /etc/opdbus/mcp-toolsets.json,
  generation 3, installed 04:58, byte-identical to the repo copy. Seven warm
  sets: context_code, context_knowledge, emqx_ops (9 tools), notebooklm_auth,
  notebooklm_research, mongodb_knowledge, mongodb_data (11 tools). Lazy load is
  toolsets.select narrowing discovery to the HOT core plus exactly one set.

  The singleton chatbot is real and bound. /etc/opdbus/mcp-audience-policy.json
  pins singleton_chatbot_principal_id 87b0decc-8464-5abf-05d8-b52ec88ff9f1 — and
  that's the same principal the durable grants file calls control-plane-chatbot
  with 9 capabilities. The bridge run script exports both config paths. So
  compact MCP stays bound to one exact principal, as you specified.

  Two things I have to flag rather than nod at.

  First — the broker's async role is specced but I can't find it built.
  design.md §10.3 gives EMQX exactly the job you're describing: distribute
  provider health, catalog invalidation, hook events, and WARM/COLD activation
  coordination, identity-checked with monotonic catalog generation, best-effort,
  never the synchronous path. But op-grpc-bridge has no MQTT client dependency
  — no rumqttc, no paho, nothing in its Cargo.toml. The EMQX→bridge direction is
  live (ExHook, connected, 19 hooks). The bridge→MQTT direction I cannot
  locate. So the broker can currently receive, not publish.

  Second — the installed manifest routes cognitive through the bridge, not the
  broker. context_code and context_knowledge both list provider
  "op-grpc-bridge". Only emqx_ops lists provider "emqx". Which is consistent
  with the design's rule that HOT calls do no MQTT, and with the bridge owning
  the Cozo lock — but it doesn't match "cognitive is accessed through the
  broker" as a data path. Either the broker's role is the coordination layer
  above it (which the spec supports and isn't built yet), or the manifest is
  wrong. You'd know which; I'd rather ask than assume.

  And all of it is behind the same door. The five HOT tools are constructed
  before the listener reports ready, and they're unreachable, because /mcp 401s
  on an empty sled.

  I've updated my memory on cognitive with the Cozo single-writer reason —
  that's the kind of thing that reads as breakage to the next agent and gets
  "fixed" into a sixth refactor.

  Still no word from the compile check.

✻ Brewed for 2m 18s · done 10:13 AM

❯ this also  fixes too many tools for cli with limits.   eventually would like  
  user coniguration for preferneces.                                            

● Let me quantify what that actually buys you:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● 515 methods across 66 plugins. That's your raw catalog — and it's why the
  projection matters more than it looks:

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Numbers make the case better than the argument does:

  515 methods across 66 plugins, 68 sealed blobs live. That's the raw catalog a
  client would otherwise enumerate. The projection takes it to 5 at first 
  contact, and at most 16 after selecting a set — the biggest warm set is
  mongodb_data at 11, then emqx_ops at 9, notebooklm_research at 6. So roughly a
  32x cut at discovery, and a realistic working surface of 10–16.

  That matters even where there's no hard cap, because every tool definition is
  re-sent as context on every single request. 515 of them is untenable on cost
  alone, before any CLI refuses. And it's why the single-endpoint decision and
  the tool-set decision are really one decision — .mcp.json has one entry,
  op-dbus-unified, and the tiering happens server-side where the grants already
  live. A client that could only filter locally would still pay for the full
  list.

  Recorded the preferences idea as OD-33 under Future, with the one constraint
  I'd want nailed to it before anyone builds it:

  A preference may only narrow, never grant. The design's admission rule is
  visible = exact grants ∩ audience ∩ selected set ∩ provider health. A user
  preference has to be one more ∩ term, never a ∪. Otherwise "let me pin my
  preferred tools" quietly becomes a capability path, and the whole point of the
  projection is that selection can restrict what you see but can never widen
  what you may do.

  Two supporting notes on it: §10.2 says promotion between HOT/WARM/COLD stays a
  reviewed manifest change with a generation bump, never automatic
  frequency-based mutation — so preferences must not silently re-tier anything.
  And the storage should be principal-keyed server-side, same shape as
  mcp-audience-policy.json, since clientInfo.name isn't authentication and a
  client-asserted preference is a client-asserted identity in disguise.

  Compile check still hasn't reported back.

✻ Baked for 54s · done 10:16 AM

❯ notebooklm used to have 40+                                                   

● That's worth checking — the manifest only lists 8 notebooklm tools across two
  sets, but the plugin declares 53:

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Found something. Your 40+ are still there — they're just not projected.

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)
● notebooklm still declares 53 methods on the live bus. The manifest projects 8
  of them:

  - notebooklm_auth: get_health, setup_auth
  - notebooklm_research: list_notebooks, get_notebook, search_notebooks,
    query_notebook, select_notebook, list_sessions

  The other 45 are orphaned — and they're the entire creation and ingestion
  surface: create_audio, create_video, create_slides, create_mindmap,
  create_report, create_flashcards, create_quiz, create_infographic,
  add_source_url / file / text / drive, run_pipeline, start_research,
  import_research, cross_notebook_query, plus all the share, tag and label
  operations.

  The reason that matters more than "they're hidden": admission is visible =
  grants ∩ audience ∩ selected set ∩ health. A method in no set can never be in
  a selected set, so it's not merely undiscoverable — it's uncallable over MCP
  regardless of what grants you hold. Those 45 remain fully live over D-Bus and
  gRPC. So right now, through the MCP door, you cannot make an audio overview or
  add a source, even as yourself.

  And it's not just notebooklm. The whole manifest references 41 tools out of 
  515 — 5 hot plus 36 warm. The tool-set layer isn't only a discovery filter,
  it's an allowlist, and 92% of the catalog is currently outside it.

  The question I can't answer from the tree: deliberate or unfinished? §10.2
  makes promotion a reviewed manifest change with a generation bump, so a
  deliberately small manifest is legitimate by design — starting minimal and
  promoting on purpose is exactly what it prescribes. But 45 orphans that happen
  to be every create_* verb reads more like a starter manifest nobody came back
  to.

  Which is the same disease as the qdrant relay, one layer up: nothing
  distinguishes "deliberately not projected" from "forgotten." I've logged it as
  a concern against OD-33 and suggested the manifest carry an explicit
  cold/unprojected declaration, so an orphan is a recorded decision instead of
  an absence.

  If the 45 should be reachable, that's a manifest edit and a generation bump —
  genuinely small, and it doesn't need the identity work to land first. Want me
  to draft the promoted sets?

✻ Worked for 1m 2s · done 10:17 AM

❯ thats is future. we are sticking to static for now                            

● Understood — deliberate, not unfinished. Let me close that question in the
  record so it doesn't get re-litigated:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Static it is. Recorded as a decision rather than an open question, with a "do
  not fix the omission" note so the next agent doesn't helpfully promote 45
  tools you didn't ask for. Promotion stays parked under OD-33.

  Where things stand:

  Landed this session
  - OIB1 → SID1 / SealedID rename, full scope: 9 source files, 10 spec files,
    wire magic, inline prefix, HTTP header, sled field, subid. op-blob's own
    vocabulary left intact.
  - emqx D-Bus member-name fix — proxy.call("status"/"start"/"stop"/"restart") →
    CamelCase, which is what the live interface actually exports. Those calls
    could never have succeeded before.

  Verified, no action needed
  - qdrant healthy (gRPC door published, collections present); the down HTTP
    relay is retired on purpose
  - cognitive correctly has no runit service — the bridge owns the Cozo lock
  - HOT five, warm sets, singleton chatbot policy all built and installed

  Open, in the order I'd take them
  1. Compile check on the rename — still out, will fold in the emqx fix when it
     reports
  2. Anna's arrival notary — still the single blocker under identity, MCP, and
     cognitive alike
  3. The Proxy::call introspection check — turns "be a better cop" into CI's job
  4. Commit and push, then build and deploy

  Nothing needs a decision from you until the compile check lands. I'll report
  it as soon as it does.

✻ Churned for 34s · done 10:18 AM

❯ thas a great thing to see a   short list! explain 3                           

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Good — and I need to correct something I said about it two messages ago.

  I claimed the check "would have caught all three past instances." That's
  wrong. Let me be accurate, because the correction is the interesting part.

  What actually breaks

  zbus has two sides with an asymmetry. The server side, #[zbus::interface],
  takes your Rust async fn status(...) and converts the name to Status on the
  wire — snake_case to CamelCase, automatically. The client side,
  Proxy::call("status"), does no conversion at all. It sends the literal bytes
  you hand it. So the server quietly renames and the client quietly doesn't, and
  nothing in the type system connects them. You get a runtime UnknownMethod,
  and if the caller logs poorly, silence.

  Tier 1 — the check

  For each Proxy::call site, the surrounding Proxy::new already supplies bus
  name, object path, and interface. So you have a complete quad: (bus, path,
  interface, member). D-Bus can answer whether that quad is real —
  org.freedesktop.DBus.Introspectable.Introspect returns XML listing every
  method the interface exports. The test walks the call sites, introspects each
  interface, and fails on any member the interface doesn't export.

  There are 21 raw call sites in op-plugins. Today the check would flag exactly
  3 — start, is_active, enable, all in netmaker.rs — and before I touched emqx
  it would have flagged 4 more. Every other site is already correct CamelCase.

  Tier 2 — the durable fix

  The bug is only possible because Proxy::call is the stringly-typed escape
  hatch. zbus ships #[zbus::proxy], which generates a client from a trait and
  applies the same snake_case→CamelCase conversion the server side uses. Both
  ends derive the name from one rule, so a mismatch stops being expressible. No
  precedent for it in this workspace yet — op-chat uses zbus::proxy::Builder,
  which is the dynamic constructor, still stringly. Converting 21 call sites
  plus a lint forbidding new raw Proxy::call in op-plugins is the version that
  ends the class rather than detecting it.

  Now the correction. The three incidents are the same disease but live on three
  different surfaces:

  - emqx — caller literal vs D-Bus introspected member. Tier 1 catches this.
  - zbusctl (2026-06-24) — hardcoded a stale bus name, path and interface
    (org.opdbus.CognitiveMcp after the .v1.plugins rename). Tier 1 catches it
    too, but only because it validates the whole quad, not just the member.
  - unix_socket.bind (2026-08-22) — schema declared bind, but
    MutationEngine::mutate only matched the legacy createunixsocket, so typed
    calls fell through to the generic echo and returned success: true. That 
    never touches D-Bus introspection. It's the schema's declared methods versus
    the engine's internal dispatch arms. Tier 1 is blind to it.

  So it's two assertions, not one: every name a component uses to reach another 
  must be checked against whichever authority defines that name. For D-Bus that
  authority is introspection. For plugin dispatch it's PluginSchema.methods —
  assert every declared method resolves to a real dispatch arm and never
  silently lands in the echo fallback. Same harness, same afternoon, different
  oracle.

  The unix_socket one is arguably the worse bug of the two classes, because it
  returned success.

✻ Brewed for 55s · done 10:20 AM

❯ there shouldnt be any  proxys i dont think                                    

● "Proxy" is overloaded here — let me check what they're actually reaching
  before I answer, because it may settle it:

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● You're more right than I was. Look what they're actually pointed at:

  ┌───────────────────────────────┬───────────────────┬─────────────────────┐
  │           Bus name            │  Status on this   │       Used by       │
  │                               │       host        │                     │
  ├───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
  │ org.freedesktop.systemd1      │ ABSENT, not even  │ systemd.rs (10      │
  │                               │ activatable       │ refs)               │
  ├───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
  │ org.freedesktop.network1      │ ABSENT, not       │ systemd_networkd.rs │
  │                               │ activatable       │                     │
  ├───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
  │ org.freedesktop.PackageKit    │ ABSENT, not       │ packagekit.rs (8    │
  │                               │ activatable       │ refs)               │
  ├───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
  │ org.freedesktop.login1        │ LIVE — elogind,   │ login1.rs           │
  │                               │ pid 1284          │                     │
  ├───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┼─────────────────────┤
  │                               │ LIVE —            │ emqx.rs,            │
  │ org.opdbus.v1.Runit.Systemctl │ op-s6-systemctl,  │ netmaker.rs         │
  │                               │ pid 31556         │                     │
  └───────────────────────────────┴───────────────────┴─────────────────────┘

  Three of the five targets don't exist here. systemd.rs, systemd_networkd.rs
  and packagekit.rs proxy to bus names that aren't owned and aren't activatable
  — an entire outbound surface that fails at runtime on every call. That's
  systemd-era residue, and CLAUDE.md already forbids the direction ("runit, not
  systemd"; "do not use systemctl or other foreign service-manager CLIs").
  op-network does rtnetlink natively, so systemd_networkd is redundant even in
  principle.

  So a large majority of the proxies aren't a design question at all — they're
  dead code from the s6/systemd era that nobody removed.

  That leaves two, and they're different from each other:

  org.opdbus.v1.Runit.Systemctl — this is the one I think you mean. It's an
  internal opdbus service, and emqx.rs holds a Proxy to call it directly. That
  means a plugin is calling sideways to another opdbus D-Bus service, going
  around the MutationEngine — no capability gate, no event chain entry, no
  audit. Everything else in the system funnels through PluginService.CallMethod.
  This doesn't. If that's the objection, then the fix I just made is a band-aid
  on code that should be deleted rather than corrected, and lifecycle should
  route through the engine like every other mutation.

  org.freedesktop.login1 (elogind) — the one defensible case. It's a real
  external OS service that owns state nothing else has, and reaching it over its
  native D-Bus interface is the same category as driving OVS over OVSDB
  JSON-RPC, which CLAUDE.md explicitly sanctions. Same argument as the EMQX
  management API.

  So my read of "there shouldn't be any proxies": correct for the internal ones
  on principle, correct for the three dead ones on the plain fact that they
  don't work, and arguable only for external OS services that have no other
  native door.

  Which did you mean — kill all outbound proxies from plugins including elogind,
  or specifically stop plugins calling other opdbus services sideways past the
  MutationEngine? The answer changes whether emqx's lifecycle path gets
  rewritten or just deleted, and it shrinks item 3 considerably either way.

✻ Cogitated for 56s · done 10:21 AM

❯ we do not have to use  zbus, that is actuall foir the end user to see options 
  with comopletion, that was the intent. we shou use zbusctl                    
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

❯ zcall                                                                         

● Two things, and let me separate them.

  For my own diagnostics — taken, and I slipped. I used sudo busctl directly
  several times this turn (introspect, and the Status call). Your standing rule
  is zcall: it gives the exact methods and args off the live tree. I'll use
  zcall and only fall back to busctl when I need something zcall doesn't expose,
  like raw introspection of a non-plugin interface.

  For the code question, here's my read — tell me if it's wrong. You're
  rejecting my Tier 2 suggestion. I proposed migrating call sites to zbus typed
  proxies, and you're saying don't build zbus client plumbing: the
  introspectable D-Bus surface exists so an operator gets discoverability and
  completion through zcall, not so plugins can wire themselves to each other
  with generated Rust clients.

  If that's it, then there's a constraint worth naming, because it forecloses
  the obvious middle option: plugins can't shell out to zcall either. That's
  Command::new, which CLAUDE.md bans in plugin code. So if a plugin may not hold
  a zbus Proxy and may not invoke zcall, the only consistent conclusion is that
  plugins don't make outbound calls at all — they're leaves. Anything
  cross-service is the MutationEngine's job, which is where the capability gate
  and the event chain already live.

  Which lands exactly where you were pointing two messages ago about emqx: its
  lifecycle path shouldn't be fixed, it should move. The plugin declares
  start/stop/restart in its schema; the engine is what talks to the runit
  service.

  Confirming before I touch anything: plugins become leaves with no outbound
  D-Bus, engine owns cross-service calls, zcall stays the human/agent door?

✻ Worked for 31s · done 10:22 AM

❯ why is command new banned, i dont remember that. seems to kneecap  the        
  plugin. should be abule to call zbus or zbusctll, maybe not zcall becuse lie  
  you seaid split backenjd/frontend...                                          

● Fair challenge — let me find out whether you ever actually said that, or
  whether an agent wrote it into CLAUDE.md and everyone's been obeying it since.

  Ran 4 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Agent "Verify SealedID rename compiles" finished · 22m 20s

❯ of all thing to obeey while all other rules arew ignored                      
  ⎿  Resuming agent a48f43e

● That's the punchline, and it's better than you think: the rule isn't even 
  obeyed in the code.

  op-plugins has 11 Command::new call sites right now — service_def.rs,
  host_runtime.rs, service.rs, xray.rs, full_system.rs, tched_router.rs. What
  they shell to:

  - sv — 4 times. The runit CLI. Plugins are already driving service lifecycle
    by subprocess.
  - hostnamectl — twice, on a host with no systemd
  - zeroclaw, docker, op-example, and a bare binary path

  So the ban is obeyed rhetorically. Agents quote it in conversation and let it
  shape designs, while the tree does whatever it wants. Meanwhile the rules that
  actually carry weight — D-Bus is the only control plane, runit not systemd,
  deploy through build-golden — get violated in the same files by the same code.

  Provenance: it entered in a86ed246, "Add zcall tooling and deployment
  handoffs," Jul 4. A tooling commit, not an architecture decision. Committed
  under your name, but everything here commits under your name, so that settles
  nothing about who wrote the sentence.

  Why something like it exists — the defensible core. CLAUDE.md:96 states the
  real version for op-network: native OVSDB, OpenFlow, rtnetlink, no CLI
  subprocesses. That has actual reasons — CLI output is unstable text you have
  to parse, a subprocess gives you an exit code instead of a typed error, and it
  drags PATH, env and permissions into runtime. Where a native protocol exists,
  using the CLI instead is strictly worse. That's a real principle with a real
  scope.

  The overreach is generalizing it to "no Command::new anywhere in plugin code,"
  which removes the escape hatch for tools that have no protocol at all. That's
  the kneecapping you're describing, and it's why nobody actually complied.

  One mechanical correction on your proposal, since it changes the shape: zbus
  and zbusctl aren't the same category. zbus is an in-process Rust library — no
  subprocess, no fork, typed errors. zbusctl and zcall are both CLIs, so calling
  either from a plugin is Command::new by definition. Your instinct to exclude
  zcall on backend/frontend grounds is right, but the same mechanical fact
  applies to zbusctl — it's a subprocess too, just a differently-scoped one.

  What I think the rule should actually be. The thing that genuinely matters in
  this system isn't the fork. It's that a subprocess escapes the control plane —
  no capability check, no event-chain entry, no audit. Shelling sv restart emqx
  mutates live state with zero record, and that's the real violation, not the
  fact that it spawned a process. Whereas a subprocess that reads something and
  returns text bypasses nothing that matters.

  So: no unaudited mutation rather than no Command::new. That keeps the property
  you care about, permits the escape hatch where no protocol exists, and —
  unlike the current rule — it's a rule the codebase could actually pass.

  I've asked the compile-check agent to report what it has; it stopped while
  op-grpc-bridge was still linking.
✻ Cooked for 1m 32s · done 10:26 AM

❯ so my no cli turened int o no command?"                                       

● Let me check rather than agree — the history should show it.

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Evidence says yes, with one honest caveat.

  a86ed246 didn't edit CLAUDE.md — it created it. Every line in that diff is an
  addition, including the project header. That's the signature of a wholesale
  authoring pass (a /init-style "document the codebase" run), not an
  architecture decision being recorded.

  And both versions of your rule were written in that same commit, at two
  different altitudes:

  - Scoped and accurate, in the crate table: op-network | Native OVSDB, 
    OpenFlow, rtnetlink (no CLI subprocesses) — a true, observable fact about
    one crate that drives OVS over OVSDB JSON-RPC instead of shelling ovs-vsctl.
  - Generalized, in the control-plane paragraph: "No Command::new(...)
    subprocesses, no direct file reads for live state, no polling loops... in
    plugin/service code."

  Same commit, same author pass. The narrow observation about op-network sits in
  the table where it belongs; the absolute prohibition got hoisted into the
  paragraph that governs everything. So the transformation you're describing is
  visible in the artifact.

  The caveat: I can't prove what you originally said, only what the file did.
  The commit is under your name, but everything here is. What I can say is that
  the specific, checkable claim and the blanket rule were authored together, and
  only the specific one is supported by the code.

  And that commit has form. The same pass also wrote "s6 supervision, NOT
  systemd" and "op-s6-systemctl | s6d service-management CLI" — both since
  overtaken, and CLAUDE.md still says op-s6-systemctl "is not the live control
  path" while that exact binary owns org.opdbus.v1.Runit.Systemctl on the live
  bus right now, pid 31556. So the file has a habit of freezing a moment into a
  rule and then not aging.

  Which is the same failure mode as the qdrant relay and the orphaned notebooklm
  tools, one level up: a snapshot written as a law, with nothing recording
  whether it was ever a decision.

  Want me to fix the line — narrow it back to "no CLI where a native protocol
  exists" plus "no unaudited mutation," and correct the stale op-s6-systemctl
  claim while I'm in there? That's a CLAUDE.md edit, so I'd rather ask than just
  do it.

✻ Baked for 36s · done 10:27 AM

❯ trying to encapsulant my no polling, searchuing, retriving, waiting...        

● That's a much better rule, and it's already in CLAUDE.md in a different
  paragraph — "Reactive, not polled. The system does not watch, poll, or index."
  Let me check whether the new code honors that one:

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Found it. This is your whole point in ten lines — in the newest code in the
  tree:

  async fn wait_for_runit_state(running: bool) -> Result<RunitStatus> {
      let deadline = tokio::time::Instant::now() + Duration::from_secs(30);
      loop {
          let status = runit_status().await?;          // retrieving
          if status.running() == running {              // searching
              return Ok(status);
          }
          if tokio::time::Instant::now() >= deadline {  // waiting
              anyhow::bail!("EMQX did not reach the requested runit state within
  30 seconds");
          }
          tokio::time::sleep(Duration::from_millis(250)).await;   // polling
      }
  }

  Polling, searching, retrieving, waiting. All four, in one function, up to 120
  round trips. Written by an agent that was scrupulously obeying "no
  Command::new" — it carefully used a D-Bus proxy instead of shelling sv, and
  then spun on it.

  The letter was obeyed. The thing the letter was standing in for was violated
  in the same file.

  And now the Command::new rule makes sense as a garbling. Shelling sv status is
  retrieving — going to ask for state you should already have. That's what made
  it feel wrong. But the transcription kept the mechanism (a fork) and dropped
  the property (asking instead of having). So the rule banned the fork and
  permitted the spin loop, which is exactly backwards: sv restart as a one-shot
  mutation is fine, and asking anything 120 times is not, subprocess or no
  subprocess.

  The formulation you're reaching for, as best I can state it:

  ▎ A component never goes looking for state. State is either already present — 
  ▎ the sealed blob, SHM, the 1:1 zero-copy read — or it arrives, as an event. 
  ▎ Anything shaped like ask repeatedly until true is the violation, regardless 
  ▎ of whether it's a subprocess, a D-Bus call, an HTTP request, or a file read.

  That covers all four verbs, it's mechanism-agnostic, and unlike the current
  rule it's testable: fail any loop whose exit condition is a re-read of remote 
  state. That's a lint, and it would flag this function and the 8 sleep sites in
  op-plugins today.

  It also explains the asymmetry you already believe: a mutation is a push and
  it's fine. An observation should be a read of present state, once. A wait
  should be an arrival, not a spin.

  Two things I'd like to do, both of which I'll hold for your yes:

  1. Rewrite that CLAUDE.md line to say what you actually meant — no
     polling/searching/retrieving/waiting, plus "no CLI where a native protocol
     exists" — instead of the Command::new absolute. And fix the stale
     op-s6-systemctl claim in the same pass.
  2. Fix wait_for_runit_state, which is mine to answer for now that I've touched
     that file.

✻ Churned for 47s · done 10:29 AM

❯ even, ie mutation. if not desired state trigger a mutation to achieve desired 
  state.                                                                        

● Right — and that closes it. Read present state once; if it diverges from
  desired, emit a mutation; the mutation is itself the event that produces the
  next arrival. Convergence through the chain, never a spin. "The mutation IS
  the event, the value IS the state," as your own SIGNALS entry put it.

  Let me check whether the interface can even support that today:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● The interface can't support it. org.opdbus.v1.Runit.Systemctl declares no 
  signals — the source has no #[zbus(signal)] and no emit anywhere. The only
  signal on the object is the standard PropertiesChanged, inherited from the
  Properties interface, and the service exposes no custom properties for it to
  fire on. It's call-only.

  So there is no arrival to react to. An agent asked to learn "did emqx come up"
  has exactly one option available: ask again, and again. The poll loop wasn't
  laziness — the interface compelled it.

  That's the structural version of what you've been circling all afternoon. The
  rule says reactive; the interface offers nothing but interrogation; so every
  consumer polls, and the rule is unenforceable against the one service that
  most needs it. And because the rule as written only banned Command::new, the
  poll loop sailed through while the harmless fork got prohibited.

  Under your model the correct shape is:

  start:  read status once
          if already running -> return present state
          else emit the Start mutation -> return
          (the service's state change arrives as an event and re-enters)

  No deadline, no sleep, no 120 round trips. But that requires the runit service
  to emit on state change, which is a real change to op-s6-systemctl, not a
  tweak to emqx.

  So the board grew by one, and it's the load-bearing one:

  1. Emit state-change signals from org.opdbus.v1.Runit.Systemctl — without
     this, "no polling" is unenforceable for every service consumer, not just
     emqx
  2. Fix wait_for_runit_state — depends on 1; mine to answer for since I touched
     that file
  3. Rewrite the CLAUDE.md rule to what you actually meant: never go looking for
     state — it's present or it arrives; if present state ≠ desired state, emit
     a mutation. Plus "no CLI where a native protocol exists," and fix the
     stale op-s6-systemctl line
  4. The lint that falls out of it: fail any loop whose exit condition is a 
     re-read of remote state — flags the emqx loop and the 8 sleep sites in
     op-plugins today

  That's a coherent unit of work and it's small. Three of the four are in one
  crate.

  Still holding for your go-ahead on any of it — I haven't touched CLAUDE.md or
  the wait loop. The compile agent hasn't reported since I asked it for
  partials.

✻ Crunched for 42s · done 10:32 AM

❯ cant belive this is still cvoming up  !op-s6-systemctl no s6                  

  Searched for 1 pattern, listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)

● It's tiny. 7 references, 5 files — smaller than the SealedID rename:

  - crates/op-s6-systemctl/Cargo.toml — package name and [[bin]] name
  - Cargo.toml — workspace member entry and path dep
  - deploy/runit/op-runit-systemctl/run — the exec line

  Plus three bits of residue:
  - a second binary literally named s6d at src/bin/s6d.rs
  - LEGACY_BUS_NAME = "org.opdbus.v1.S6.Systemctl", still claimed alongside the
    real name — its own comment says "one release only," and that was the runit
    migration six weeks ago
  - installed: /usr/local/bin/op-s6-systemctl and /usr/local/bin/s6d

  The runit service directory is already correctly named op-runit-systemctl, and
  the primary bus name is already org.opdbus.v1.Runit.Systemctl. So the rename
  was done at the service and bus layer and simply never reached the crate.

  And CLAUDE.md is actively wrong about it — the crate table says
  op-s6-systemctl is "legacy, s6-era... not the live control path." That binary
  is pid 31556, owns the live runit bus name, and emqx's entire lifecycle path
  depends on it. It is the control path. That line is probably why it keeps
  getting treated as vestigial instead of getting renamed.

  One question before I move, because it changes the target:

  op-runit-systemctl — matches the existing service dir and bus name, ~10
  minutes, no bus-name change, nothing else to coordinate.

  Or drop "systemctl" too — it's foreign vernacular from the same family you've
  been purging, and something like op-runit-svc / op-sv would be honest about
  what it is. But the bus name org.opdbus.v1.Runit.Systemctl is live and
  consumed, so that version means a coordinated bus-name change as well. Still
  small — only emqx.rs and netmaker.rs consume it — but it's a live rename
  rather than a source-only one.

  Say which and I'll do it, along with correcting the CLAUDE.md line and
  dropping the dead S6 alias. I've still got the CLAUDE.md rewrite and the
  wait-loop fix queued behind your go-ahead too — happy to bundle all of it into
  one pass.

✻ Sautéed for 47s · done 10:34 AM

❯ we ar e and havve been for a long time runit                                  

● Then let's make it stop coming up. Going with op-runit-systemctl — matches the
  service dir and bus name that are already runit-named.

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● #[proxy] typed traits already exist in this crate — so the pattern that would
  have prevented the emqx casing bug was sitting one directory away. Let me
  check what references the s6d binary before I move anything:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● The rename was already decided and deferred — let me honor the prior decision
  rather than invent a new name:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Decision was already made and recorded as spec FR-7 — op-s6-systemctl →
  op-runit-systemctl, s6d → svd — deferred on 2026-08-01 because it touches
  workspace members and the running service. Executing it as specified:
  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ nix is still in workspace whis is over a yar gone                             

● Two fixes — my sed left the dep key half-renamed. Let me finish that and look
  at nix:

  Searched for 2 patterns, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● No .nix files at all — you mean the nix crate. And look:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Careful — I have to push back on this one. My first grep was wrong (it's used
  fully-qualified, not via use). nix is live, not residue:

  - op-core: 3 uses — nix::unistd::chown, Gid
  - op-plugins: 10 uses
  - op-grpc-bridge: 8 uses — chown, Group::from_name, signal::kill(SIGHUP),
    Pid::from_raw for the xray reload path
  - op-xray-daemon: 4 uses

  That's real syscall work with no std equivalent. Removing it would break the
  credential-projection chown and the xray SIGHUP path.

  But there is something wrong here:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Four versions of nix compile into every build — 0.26.4, 0.27.1, 0.28.0,
  0.29.0. Your four crates pin 0.28.0; the others come in transitively: 0.26.4
  and 0.29.0 from zbus (two different zbus copies in the graph — worth its own
  look, given zbus is [patch]ed to that local checkout), 0.27.1 from rtnetlink.
  That's four copies of a syscall wrapper being compiled and linked, which is
  real build time on a workspace you already said takes hours.

  So on nix specifically: it isn't dead residue, it's live in 25 call sites.
  Unless you meant something else by it — a nix-era config, or a specific crate
  — in which case point me at it, because I searched for .nix files, flake.nix,
  flake.lock and workspace members and found none.

  Meanwhile the s6 rename is done in source:

  - crates/op-s6-systemctl → crates/op-runit-systemctl (git mv, history
    preserved)
  - binary op-s6-systemctl → op-runit-systemctl; s6d → svd (src/bin/s6d.rs →
    svd.rs)
  - workspace member + dep key updated
  - deploy/runit/op-runit-systemctl/run now execs the new binary name
  - types: S6SystemctlService → RunitSystemctlService, S6SystemctlProxy →
    RunitSystemctlProxy, trait S6Systemctl → RunitSystemctl

  That's spec FR-7, which was written down on 2026-08-01 and deferred. Still
  outstanding on it, and I want your call before touching either:

  1. Drop LEGACY_BUS_NAME = "org.opdbus.v1.S6.Systemctl". Its own comment says
     "one release only," and that release was the runit migration six weeks ago.
     It's currently claimed as a second bus name and used as a fallback
     destination in svd. Nothing in the tree calls it. Dropping it is safe in 
     source, but the live daemon claims it today.
  2. 3tched-artix-runit-install.sh still installs s6d op-s6-systemctl at line
     362 and lists s6d in its binary set at 1421. That file installs the host —
     I'd rather not edit an installer without you looking.

  And note the live service is untouched: /etc/runit/sv/op-runit-systemctl/run
  still execs /usr/local/bin/op-s6-systemctl, which is correct until the new
  binary is actually built and installed. Deploying the repo run script before
  the rename ships would break the service.

✻ Worked for 2m 14s · done 10:37 AM

● Agent "Verify SealedID rename compiles" finished · 34m 28s

● Report's in. One thing in it is mine: I missed server.rs. It referenced
  HTTP_IDENTITY_BLOB_HEADER in the CORS allow_headers list; the agent caught and
  fixed it. Let me check whether the deploy-side references it flagged are
  prose or functional:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ that is probably why it takes an howr to build teh b ridge                    

● Let me measure that rather than assume — nix is small, so four copies of it
  shouldn't cost an hour. Checking what actually dominates:

  Searched for 2 patterns, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ i meant the versions yo umentioned take an hour                               

● You're right, and the data backs it — 123 duplicated packages out of 990. But
  two of them are the real story, and one contradicts CLAUDE.md:

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● All three sources of the duplication are named, and one of them is a lie in
  CLAUDE.md:

  1. zeroclaw-gui is still a workspace member (Cargo.toml:43). It pulls eframe,
  egui, egui_extras, egui_glow, egui-winit, winit, glutin and three glutin_*_sys
  crates — a full OpenGL windowing stack, compiled on every workspace build, on
  a headless server. The codex session "retired zeroclaw-gui from release
  binaries," but retiring it from the binary list doesn't stop cargo building it
  as a member. You told me today to deprecate it. Removing that one line
  deletes an entire graphics stack from your build.

  2. op-xray-daemon pins zbus = "4" while the workspace is on zbus 5. One
  first-party crate, one line, and it forces a second full copy of zbus,
  zvariant, zvariant_derive, zvariant_utils, zbus_macros and zbus_names. The
  third copy is zbus 3.15.2, dragged in by keyring 2 → secret-service. keyring
  has 4 uses in op-identity.

  So the entire D-Bus stack — the thing this project is built on — compiles
  three times, and two of the three are avoidable.

  3. CLAUDE.md:55 is false. It says:

  ▎ [patch.crates-io] pins zbus to a local checkout at /home/admin/git/zbus — 
  ▎ the workspace does not build without it.

  The actual [patch.crates-io] section contains only rovs-openflow. There is no
  zbus patch, no reference to /home/admin/git/zbus anywhere in the manifests.
  That line has been telling every agent — including me at the start of this
  session — that the build depends on a path that isn't used. Same failure mode
  as "op-s6-systemctl is not the live control path": a snapshot frozen into a
  law, never aged.

  On the hour, honestly: duplicates are a real cost and you've got 123 of them,
  but I'd be overclaiming if I said they're the whole hour. cozorocks is
  RocksDB's C++ tree, aws-lc-sys is a large C build, and bindgen/clang-sys are
  slow by nature — those are probably the floor no matter what you do. What's
  removable is the GUI stack and two-thirds of the zbus family, and that's a
  real dent rather than a rounding error.

  Three one-line changes, and none of them touch running code:

  - delete "crates/zeroclaw-gui" from workspace members
  - bump op-xray-daemon to zbus = "5" (may need small API fixes — 4→5 had
    breaking changes)
  - correct CLAUDE.md:55

  I've got a queue of things waiting on your word now — these three, the S6
  legacy bus alias, the installer, the CLAUDE.md polling rewrite, and the
  wait_for_runit_state fix. Say which and I'll batch them; the s6 rename itself
  is done in source but unverified, so it needs a compile pass regardless.

✻ Cooked for 40m 46s · done 10:39 AM

● Agent "Verify SealedID rename compiles" finished · 37m 17s

● Interim update from the compile agent, and it sharpens the build-time answer:

  The rename is confirmed compiling. op-grpc-bridge's lib and lib-tests both
  build cleanly with SealedID in place — 25 warnings, zero errors. The earlier
  "did not finish" was the agent's own logging artifact, not a failure. Only
  test execution is outstanding.

  And here's the useful part for what you just asked: it's been in the link 
  phase for ~20 minutes, with three concurrent rust-lld processes. That's not
  compiling duplicates — that's linking a 130MB binary.

  Which reframes the hour. You've got at least three separable costs:

  - compile — 990 packages, 123 duplicated, plus cozorocks/aws-lc-sys/bindgen as
    the irreducible native floor
  - link — 20+ minutes on one binary, and rust-lld is already the fast linker;
    mold is typically several times faster again
  - debuginfo — I noticed earlier there's no [profile.release] section in 
    Cargo.toml at all, so you're on cargo defaults. A 130MB binary suggests full
    debug symbols are going in. debug = 1 or split-debuginfo = "packed" would
    cut link time and binary size substantially without losing backtraces.

  So the honest split: dropping zeroclaw-gui and the extra zbus copies helps the
  compile half; a linker and profile change helps the link half. The link half
  looks like the cheaper win — it's config, not dependency surgery.

  Nothing acted on. Still holding your call on the queue.

✻ Brewed for 17s · done 10:40 AM

❯ lets  do versioning and renaming an dedup so  ti  saves the ime in            
  comppikling look ad build cache is 700GB?                                     

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● 777G apparent, on a 639G filesystem that reports 280G used — so those numbers
  need reconciling before you act on them:
  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Two things in there that aren't what they look like:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Stop — before any cleanup, two things you need to know:

  1. Your build disk is 94% full. target is its own btrfs subvolume on /dev/sdb1
  with zstd:3 compression: 500G total, 469G used, 31G free. The 777G figure is
  apparent size; compression is hiding how close to the wall you are. Builds
  will start failing.

  2. There is a 141GB backup living inside target/.

  target/downloads/vps-6aff90ab.vps.ovh.ca-snapshot
    QEMU QCOW2 image, 200GB virtual disk, 141GB on disk, dated Aug 21

  That's a full disk image of the OVH VPS, sitting in a directory named target,
  alongside OVH invoices and .eml files. Every cargo clean, every build-cleanup
  script, and every agent ever told to "clear the build cache" would destroy it.
  I am not touching it. But it should not live there — if it matters, move it
  off the build subvolume before anything else happens.

  The actual reclaimable cargo bloat, once you set those 141G aside:

  ┌──────────────────────────┬──────────┐
  │                          │ apparent │
  ├──────────────────────────┼──────────┤
  │ target/debug/incremental │ 286G     │
  ├──────────────────────────┼──────────┤
  │ target/debug/deps        │ 280G     │
  ├──────────────────────────┼──────────┤
  │ target/release           │ 32G      │
  └──────────────────────────┴──────────┘

  incremental is pure rebuild-speed cache — deleting it costs one slower build
  and reclaims the single biggest chunk. It's the safe first move.

  Now, the source-side dedup you asked for. Checking one thing before I edit:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ part of it is subvolumes too                                                  

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● That changes the picture materially. /dev/sdb1 is not a build disk — it's 
  shared with your container pool and your identity sleds:

  @build                          ← cargo target
  @bun-cache
  3tched-storage/                 ← the entire Incus pool
    containers/qdrant, assistant, cozo, mail-3tched, xray
    containers/bea37ecb-…, f036f8d8-…
    images/, custom/default_cozo-opdbus
  @identity-jeremy                ← identity sled
  @identity-chatbot               ← identity sled

  Real btrfs numbers: 474.02 GiB allocated of 500, 467.75 GiB used, 30.36 GiB 
  free.

  So a runaway cargo build doesn't just slow you down — it can exhaust the disk
  holding every container and both identity sleds. The sled schema says
  persistence is "an immutable sealed btrfs image... attached via btrfs device
  add," and those two @identity-* subvolumes are it. Cleaning
  target/debug/incremental stops being a speed optimization and becomes a safety
  measure.

  Meanwhile the source-side dedup checks came back clean, so I've done the two
  safe ones:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Two CLAUDE.md lines still name the crate I renamed — fixing those as part of
  the same change:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

❯ i meant dedup as in the build                                                 

● Misread you — I did dependency dedup. You meant btrfs dedup on the build data.
  Let me check what's available:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● None installed; all three are in Artix extra — bees 0.11, duperemove 0.15.2,
  compsize 1.5.

  But the order matters, and dedup should not go first. Your data block groups
  are at 468.01 GiB allocated / 463.77 GiB used — about 4 GiB of slack, with
  25.97 GiB unallocated. Deduplication temporarily grows metadata while it
  rewrites extent references, and doing that on a 94%-full btrfs that also holds
  your live container pool and both identity sleds is how you wedge a
  filesystem. Metadata is DUP at 3 GiB total, 2.07 used, so there isn't much
  headroom there either.

  Safer sequence:

  1. Delete target/debug/incremental first — 286G apparent, pure rebuild cache,
     regenerates itself. Costs one slow build, needs no new packages, and it's
     the one step with essentially no failure mode. It also creates the room
     dedup needs.
  2. Install compsize and measure — you're on zstd:3, so you don't actually know
     your current ratio yet. That tells you whether dedup has anything to find
     or whether compression already ate most of it.
  3. Then dedup, if the numbers justify it — duperemove -dr as a controllable
     one-shot rather than bees. bees is a continuously-running daemon; on a disk
     that's simultaneously serving qdrant, cozo, mail-3tched and xray, that's
     sustained background I/O on the same device.

  One expectation to set: cargo target trees usually dedup worse than people
  hope — rustc output differs per compilation unit, so there's less
  identical-extent content than the size suggests. Your container subvolumes
  under 3tched-storage are the likely jackpot, since containers sharing a base
  image duplicate heavily. If you're going to spend the I/O, point it at the
  whole subvolume set, not just @build.

  Nothing done on any of that — installing packages and deleting 286G both want
  your explicit yes.

  For the record, the three edits I made under the wrong reading are still worth
  keeping, just on a different axis (compile time, not disk):

  - zeroclaw-gui dropped from workspace members — nothing depends on it, it was
    already in deploy/runit/retired-binaries and already out of the release set;
    only the member entry kept the egui/glutin/winit stack compiling
  - op-xray-daemon zbus = "4" → zbus.workspace = true — it had only 2 zbus::
    call sites, and the pin was forcing a second full zbus/zvariant family
  - CLAUDE.md:55's false zbus-patch claim corrected

  Say the word on step 1 and I'll run it.

✻ Brewed for 43s · done 10:44 AM

❯ 123 duplicates                                                                

● Right — let me get the real list, because a lot of those 123 never compile on
  Linux:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● 101 actually compile on Linux — the other 22 are Windows/wasm/macOS,
  target-gated and never built here. And they're not 101 independent problems;
  they're five clusters, each traceable to one holdout:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ - compile — 990 packages, 123 duplicated, plus cozorocks/aws-lc-sys/bindgen   
  as the irreducible native floor                                               
  - link — 20+ minutes on one binary, and rust-lld is already the fast linker;  
  mold is typically several times faster again                                  
  - debuginfo — I noticed earlier there's no [profile.release] section in       
  Cargo.toml at all, so you're on cargo defaults. A 130MB binary suggests full  
  debug symbols are going in. debug = 1 or split-debuginfo = "packed" would cut 
  link time and binary size substantially without losing backtraces.- compile   
  — 990 packages, 123 duplicated, plus cozorocks/aws-lc-sys/bindgen as the      
  irreducible native floor                                                      
  - link — 20+ minutes on one binary, and rust-lld is already the fast linker;  
  mold is typically several times faster again                                  
  - debuginfo — I noticed earlier there's no [profile.release] section in       
  Cargo.toml at all, so you're on cargo defaults. A 130MB binary suggests full  
  debug symbols are going in. debug = 1 or split-debuginfo = "packed" would cut 
  link time and binary size substantially without losing backtraces.            

  Listed 1 directory, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Correction to what I told you earlier: release is already debug=false — that's
  cargo's default, and I was wrong to suggest otherwise. The 130MB release
  binary is just a large statically-linked Rust binary. The debuginfo problem is
  entirely in the dev profile:

  target/debug/op-grpc-bridge    1,370,187,360 bytes   (1.37 GB)
  target/release/op-grpc-bridge    129,965,104 bytes   (130 MB)

  One debug binary is 1.37 GB. That's what's filling 605G of target/debug, and
  it's what those three rust-lld processes have been chewing on for 20 minutes.
  So the fix goes on [profile.dev], not release. Applying it:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ and zbus is core  funedemental i t has to be upraded                          
● zbus is already at 5 in the workspace, and I moved op-xray-daemon onto it. The
  remaining copy — zbus 3.15.2 — comes from keyring. Let me check whether that
  dependency is even functional here:

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● That's the whole remaining zbus problem, and it's dead code:

  crates/op-identity/src/token.rs — 91 lines, 9 keyring calls, unused.

  - lib.rs:16 declares it with the comment // Keeping for now if needed 
    internally
  - Re-exported at lib.rs:39, and no other crate imports it. The CachedToken
    hits in op-llm are that crate's own separate struct definitions in
    headless_oauth.rs and gemini.rs, not imports from op-identity
  - What it does: caches a gcloud/ADC token into the system keyring
  - keyring::Entry::new("mcp-identity", "gcloud-token") needs
    org.freedesktop.secrets on the bus. It is not present — not on the system
    bus, and there's no user session bus. gnome-keyring-daemon and kwalletd6 are
    installed as packages but nothing is serving that interface. So every call
    fails and falls through the if let Ok(...) guard silently.

  And for those 91 unreachable lines you compile: keyring 2 → secret-service → 
  zbus 3.15.2, plus the entire async-std-era stack it drags — async-broadcast
  0.5, async-channel 1.9, async-fs 1.6, async-io 1.13, async-lock 2.8,
  async-process 1.8, event-listener 2.5, futures-lite 1.13, polling 2.8,
  fastrand 1.9, memoffset 0.7, nix 0.26.4, and a third copy of zvariant /
  zvariant_derive / zvariant_utils / zbus_macros / zbus_names. Roughly 18 
  crates.

  So zbus unification is two changes, and one is already done:

  ┌────────┬───────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────┐
  │  copy  │            source             │             status             │
  ├────────┼───────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 5.18.0 │ workspace zbus = "5"          │ correct, keep                  │
  ├────────┼───────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 4.4.0  │ op-xray-daemon pinned zbus =  │ fixed — now zbus.workspace =   │
  │        │ "4"                           │ true                           │
  ├────────┼───────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 3.15.2 │ keyring 2 → secret-service    │ needs your yes                 │
  └────────┴───────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────┘

  Delete token.rs, drop its pub mod/pub use, and remove keyring = "2" from
  op-identity, and you're down to one zbus — which is what you're asking for,
  given zbus is the foundation the whole control plane sits on.

  Also from the same sweep, for when you want them: the workspace pins reqwest =
  "0.11" (Cargo.toml:113) while something transitive pulls 0.12 — that one
  holdout is the ~16-crate cluster of hyper 0.14 / http 0.2 / h2 0.3 / rustls
  0.21 / tower 0.4. And more concerning than build time: op-plugins and op-blob 
  are on schemars = "1" while the workspace pins 0.8, so op-grpc-bridge consumes
  the schema pipeline on 0.8 while op-plugins produces it on 1. That's a split
  down the middle of PluginSchema and probably deserves its own look.

  Say go on the keyring removal and I'll do it.

✻ Sautéed for 2m 30s · done 10:47 AM

❯ do keyring, fix schemars  ... just fix all mentionned sopt if causing major   
  issue wll go from there                                                       

● Green light taken. Working lowest-risk first so progress banks before anything
  hard. 1 — keyring:

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● 2 — schemars. Checking the blast radius before touching the workspace pin,
  since 0.8→1 is a breaking API change:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Both of those crates declare schemars but barely use it — op-grpc-bridge has a
  single mention in a doc comment, op-gallery-gen has zero. Let me confirm
  which section it's in:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● Good news — my earlier worry about a split PluginSchema pipeline was wrong.
  schemars is simply an unused dependency in both: zero API references in any
  .rs, build.rs or test. The 0.8 pin exists to satisfy nobody.

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● 3 — reqwest 0.11 → 0.12, the ~16-crate cluster. Surveying the API surface
  first, since this one can actually break:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Surface is entirely basic — Client, builder, RequestBuilder, HeaderMap,
  StatusCode, Method — all unchanged in 0.12. The "multipart" hits are OpenFlow
  multipart messages, false positives. But one thing needs checking first:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● Stopping on reqwest — this is the "major issue" case.
  op-web/src/handlers/privacy.rs:754 calls oauth2::reqwest::async_http_client,
  and oauth2 4.4 is hard-coupled to reqwest 0.11. oauth2 5.x is what moved to
  0.12, and it removed that API entirely. So the reqwest bump isn't a version
  line — it's a coupled oauth2 4→5 migration through an OAuth flow.

  Worth noting: that's the same OAuth you've asked about twice today. Your call
  whether to migrate oauth2 or delete the flow; I'm not guessing on that one.

  Finishing the remaining safe items from the batch:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ ad  do we  compare to json official spec or schema official spec?             

● Good question, and directly relevant to what I just changed. Let me check:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Official JSON Schema spec, draft 2020-12 — that's what's emitted:

  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema"

  That comes from schemars 1.x (0.8 emitted draft-07, which is another reason
  the pin I just unified mattered — a crate on 0.8 would have produced a
  different dialect than op-plugins).

  But validation is split, and nothing pins a draft explicitly:

  ┌─────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │   jsonschema    │                        used by                        │
  ├─────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 0.29            │ op-grpc-bridge, op-state-store, op-agents,            │
  │ (workspace)     │ op-gallery-gen                                        │
  ├─────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 0.18            │ op-compliance, op-tools                               │
  └─────────────────┴───────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

  There is no Draft:: or .draft(...) call anywhere in the workspace — both
  versions auto-detect the dialect from $schema. The load-bearing path is fine:
  op-grpc-bridge validates plugin method inputs on 0.29, the current major. But
  op-compliance and op-tools are two majors behind, validating the same 2020-12
  documents through an older implementation whose 2020-12 support was still
  maturing.

  Let me see whether those two can just move up:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ \and is the zeroclaw using shared crates?                                     

● Two answers.

  jsonschema: the 0.18 crates use the old JSONSchema type; 0.29 uses Validator /
  validator_for. So it's a real but small API migration — one import and the
  compile call in each of two files. Not free, but not coupled to anything else
  the way reqwest was.

  On zeroclaw:

  Listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)
● zeroclaw-gui uses one shared crate — op-identity, by path. But it has zero
  workspace = true entries, so pulling it out of the members list doesn't break
  it: every dep is explicitly versioned, and it still builds on demand via
  --manifest-path. It just stops compiling on every workspace build. Clean
  outcome.

  One caveat I should flag: since it's now unmembered, cargo check --workspace
  won't catch breakage in it — and I just removed TokenManager/CachedToken from
  op-identity. Let me verify it didn't use those, plus look at the other
  zeroclaw:

  Listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)

● Both accounted for: zeroclaw-gui doesn't touch what I removed from
  op-identity, and the other zeroclaw — vendored zeroclawlabs — is a real
  dependency of op-plugins, so it stays in every build.

  Handing the whole batch to the verifier, since none of it is compile-checked
  yet:
  ⎿  Resuming agent a48f43e

● Batch is with the verifier. Where it landed:

  Done, pending compile check
  - zbus → one copy. op-xray-daemon off its zbus = "4" pin; keyring removed,
    which kills zbus 3.15.2 and ~18 async-std-era crates behind it
  - keyring gone — token.rs was 91 lines of unreachable code (// Keeping for now
    if needed internally, no external importer) caching a gcloud token into a
    secret-service that isn't on the bus
  - schemars unified at 1 — and it was simply an unused dep in both 0.8
    consumers, so my "split PluginSchema pipeline" worry was wrong. Real
    benefit: schemars 0.8 emits draft-07, 1.x emits 2020-12, so the pin split
    was a dialect split waiting to happen
  - zeroclaw-gui out of workspace members — drops
    egui/eframe/winit/glutin/wayland; still builds standalone
  - build profiles added — dev debuginfo was the 1.37 GB binary and the 605G
    tree
  - s6 rename complete (spec FR-7) plus the CLAUDE.md corrections

  Stopped, your call
  - reqwest 0.11 → 0.12 — coupled to an oauth2 4→5 migration through the OAuth
    flow you've now questioned twice. Migrate oauth2, or delete the flow?
  - jsonschema 0.18 → 0.29 in op-compliance and op-tools — small mechanical
    migration, JSONSchema::compile → validator_for, two files. Your validation
    of plugin inputs is already on 0.29 in op-grpc-bridge, so this is tidiness
    rather than risk

  On your spec question: official JSON Schema, draft 2020-12, emitted by
  schemars 1.x and auto-detected by the jsonschema crate — no explicit Draft::
  pin anywhere in the workspace.

  Still untouched from earlier, awaiting you: the 286G target/debug/incremental
  delete (your build disk is at 94% and shares a device with the container pool
  and both identity sleds), mold, the S6 legacy bus alias, the installer's s6d
  references, the CLAUDE.md polling rewrite, and wait_for_runit_state.

  And the 141GB OVH qcow2 in target/downloads still wants moving off the build
  subvolume before anything runs a cleanup there.

✻ Baked for 3m 25s · done 10:52 AM

● Agent "Verify SealedID rename compiles" finished · 51m 37s

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ we have no uses  for oauth do  jsonschema  draft good idea? if so clone repo  
  in the /srv/git/  delete incremental keep ovh cow for now i want to maount    
  and see if home is there                                                      

● Disk is at 95%, 29G free, with a full debug rebuild running — the profile
  change invalidated the whole cache. Deleting incremental now, since that's
  both approved and the urgent one:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● 23 rustc processes are mid-build, so this will likely fail their in-flight
  units — but 287G against 29G free, on a device also holding your container
  pool and both identity sleds, makes freeing space the higher priority. Cargo
  regenerates what it needs.

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

❯ stop build is going to fail  ans tart after we make the rest oof changesw     

● You're right — sequencing was wrong. Stopping the build first.

● Stop Task
  ⎿  Verify SealedID rename compiles · stopped

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Agent stopped but its build children are still running — 19 rustc, 1 cargo.
  Terminating them so the tree is quiet before I edit:

  Ran 3 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● All zombies — parents gone, init will reap them. Build tree is quiet, and
  terminating freed 21G on its own (450G used, 50G free).

  Now the remaining changes. OAuth first, since it unblocks the reqwest cluster:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● This is bigger than a dependency cleanup — it's a Google OAuth login flow with
  two handlers and ~280 lines in privacy.rs, plus GoogleOAuthConfig in
  state.rs. Let me check whether it's actually reachable before I delete a login
  path:

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Routed at /privacy/google/auth and /privacy/google/callback, but
  GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID/SECRET aren't set — not in the live run script, not in
  the running process env (only unrelated GOOGLE_CLOUD_* for gcloud). So
  from_env() returns None and both handlers already answer "Google OAuth not
  configured". Dead in practice, matching what you said.

  Let me get exact boundaries before cutting — google_callback calls
  provision_verified_user, which the verify flow also uses and must survive:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

❯ i just realized that  we do use it. adc                                       
● Good catch — and I need to check something I already did. token.rs was
  described as "Thin wrapper around gcloud/ADC" and I deleted it. Let me see
  what ADC actually runs on:

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ and openclaw uses too                                                         

❯ i was thinking for opdbus wg auth                                             

  Searched for 2 patterns (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ model routeer  uses it heavily                                                

● Now the picture's complete, and the distinction matters:

  Only op-web depends on the oauth2 crate. No file outside op-web contains a
  single oauth2:: reference. So the model router's heavy OAuth use — gemini.rs,
  anthropic.rs, antigravity.rs, headless_oauth.rs loading Antigravity's Google
  tokens captured over VNC — is all hand-rolled token handling: reqwest calls,
  jsonwebtoken, file reads. None of it goes through the oauth2 crate, and none 
  of it is affected by anything I've done.

  Three separate things that share a word:

  ┌──────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┬────────────────────┐
  │          │               what it is               │       status       │
  ├──────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────┤
  │ OAuth    │ model router provider auth,            │ live, heavily      │
  │ tokens   │ Antigravity VNC tokens, ADC            │ used, untouched    │
  ├──────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────┤
  │ oauth2   │ op-web only, one Google login flow in  │ the only thing     │
  │ crate    │ privacy.rs, GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID     │ pinning reqwest    │
  │          │ unset so it answers "not configured"   │ 0.11               │
  ├──────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────┤
  │          │ "OAuth token acquisition &             │ I deleted it;      │
  │ token.rs │ org.freedesktop.secrets cache" —       │ nothing imported   │
  │          │ wrapped gcloud/ADC                     │ it; recoverable    │
  │          │                                        │ from git           │
  └──────────┴────────────────────────────────────────┴────────────────────┘

  ADC itself is fine and I didn't touch it: gcloud_adc.rs reads
  ~/.config/gcloud/application_default_credentials.json directly (type
  authorized_user, refresh_token present). No oauth2 crate involved.

  My recommendation: leave all of it alone. The reqwest 0.12 win is ~16
  duplicate crates, and it isn't worth touching a login flow while you're
  uncertain about the blast radius. Keep reqwest at 0.11. We already got the two
  clean wins — zbus down to one copy and the egui/glutin stack gone — without
  going near any of this.

  On token.rs: say the word and I'll restore it. But note the tradeoff — it's
  the only thing that pulled keyring, and keyring is what dragged zbus 3.15.2
  plus ~18 async-std-era crates back in. So restoring it undoes the zbus
  unification you asked for. If you want ADC token caching, caching it somewhere
  other than the freedesktop secret-service would get you both (there's no
  secrets daemon on this host anyway, so that code path never worked here).

  And on OAuth for opdbus WG auth — I'd push back on that one. Your identity
  model is WG pubkey → principal_id → sled session → SID1 sealed envelope, and
  mcp_frontend deliberately accepts exactly one credential form, rejecting
  requests that present both OIA1 and SID1. OAuth would be a third credential
  door into the same endpoint, which is the thing that design is specifically
  built to prevent.

  Nothing further changed. What's still queued: jsonschema 0.18→0.29 (two files,
  mechanical), then delete incremental, then one clean build.

✻ Baked for 11m 6s · done 11:00 AM

❯ probably handled by zeroclaw binary                                           

  Listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)

● Confirmed, and it exposes something:

  /srv/git/zeroclaw has the real auth module — src/auth/openai_oauth.rs,
  gemini_oauth.rs, oauth_common.rs, profiles.rs. That's where model-router OAuth
  lives, exactly as you said.

  But vendor/zeroclawlabs is a stub — just Cargo.toml and a single src/lib.rs:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● That's a real problem. The stub is 193 lines of empty structs — pub struct 
  Config {}, AgentConfig {}, AutonomyConfig {}, all with no fields — while the
  real /srv/git/zeroclaw has 290 .rs files. And the manifest comment says "On
  the host, override to /srv/git/zeroclaw."

  This is the host, and there's no override. No .cargo/config.toml exists, and
  Cargo.toml points at vendor/zeroclawlabs. Let me check what that costs:

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Found a live booby trap:

  crates/op-plugins/src/state_plugins/tched_router_config_surface.rs
  //! GENERATED by `cargo run -p op-plugins --bin
  gen_tched_router_config_surface`.
  //! DO NOT EDIT — regenerate after bumping the `zeroclaw` dependency.

  2321 lines, 65 methods — the largest plugin surface in the system. It's
  generated by schemars::schema_for!(zeroclaw::Config). And zeroclaw::Config, as
  this workspace currently resolves it, is the stub's pub struct Config {} —
  empty.

  So that file was generated when the dependency pointed at the real
  /srv/git/zeroclaw. Today it points at the stub. Anyone who follows the file's 
  own instruction and regenerates silently replaces 65 methods with nothing —
  and the file says DO NOT EDIT, so they'd be doing exactly as told.

  It's worse right now than it was this morning: I just moved schemars 0.8→1, so
  a regeneration would also flip the dialect from draft-07 to 2020-12 at the
  same time.

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Recorded so it doesn't evaporate. Two ways to fix it, and they're different in
  kind:

  Host-local override — create .cargo/config.toml pointing zeroclaw at
  /srv/git/zeroclaw. Keeps the repo portable (the stub stays the committed
  default), and it's the same file a mold linker setting would live in, so it
  does double duty. Downside: it adds 290 .rs files to your build, which cuts
  against everything we just did for build time.

  A guard in the generator — make gen_tched_router_config_surface refuse to emit
  when schema_for!(zeroclaw::Config) yields zero properties. That's three
  lines, costs no build time, and it's the durable one: it makes the trap
  impossible rather than documented. Same shape as the Proxy::call check and the
  no-polling lint — the pattern this whole session keeps landing on.

  I'd do the guard now and treat the override as a separate decision about
  whether the real zeroclaw belongs in this workspace's build at all — given
  it's a separate binary you already run, it may not.

  Current state of play, since a lot has moved:

  Done, uncompiled — s6→runit rename (FR-7), SealedID rename, emqx CamelCase
  fix, zbus unified to one copy, keyring + dead token.rs removed, schemars
  unified at 1, zeroclaw-gui unmembered, build profiles added, four CLAUDE.md
  corrections.

  Stopped on your word — reqwest/oauth2 (leave it; the model router's OAuth is
  in the zeroclaw binary, and the oauth2 crate only serves op-web's unconfigured
  Google login).

  Queued, nothing running — jsonschema 0.18→0.29 in op-compliance and op-tools,
  then delete incremental, then one clean build. Build tree is quiet and the
  disk recovered to 50G free when I killed the build.

  Want the generator guard plus jsonschema, then clean and build?

✻ Worked for 1m 30s · done 11:02 AM

❯ i think it is working at the maoment with running binary. we can come back to 
  that                                                                          

● Agreed — it's working as deployed, and it's recorded. Moving on to the queue.
  jsonschema migration:

  Searched for 1 pattern, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Old API returns an error iterator from validate; 0.29 returns a single error
  and moves the iterator to iter_errors. Applying both migrations:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● One thing to clean up — Validator as _ is pointless for a struct and will
  warn, since the code calls jsonschema::validator_for fully qualified:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● jsonschema unified at 0.29 across the workspace. Now the disk step you
  approved — build tree should be quiet:
  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● 165G reclaimed — 441G → 276G used, free went 58G → 222G, and you're down from
  89% to 56%. With the 21G from stopping the build, that's ~186G back on the
  device your container pool and identity sleds share.

  Now one clean build over the whole batch:

● Agent(Verify full dedup batch builds)
  ⎿  Backgrounded agent (↓ to manage · ctrl+o to expand)

● Build's running cold in the background. It'll take a while — the profile
  change invalidated the dev cache, so this is close to a from-scratch workspace
  check.

  What went in this round

  ┌────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │            │                                                             │
  ├────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
  │            │ 0.18 + 0.29 → one copy; migrated JSONSchema::compile →      │
  │ jsonschema │ validator_for and validate → iter_errors in op-tools and    │
  │            │ op-compliance                                               │
  ├────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ disk       │ 165G reclaimed — 89% → 56%, free 58G → 222G                 │
  └────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

  The full batch now under test: s6→runit rename (FR-7), SealedID/SID1 rename,
  emqx D-Bus CamelCase fix, zbus 3→1 copy, keyring + dead token.rs gone,
  schemars unified at 1, jsonschema unified at 0.29, zeroclaw-gui unmembered,
  build profiles added, four CLAUDE.md corrections.

  Deliberately left alone: reqwest/oauth2 — the model router's OAuth lives in
  the zeroclaw binary, and the oauth2 crate only serves op-web's unconfigured
  Google login. Not worth the blast radius.

  Parked with a signal written: the tched_router_config_surface generator. It's
  working from the running binary, as you said, and the trap is recorded so the
  next person doesn't regenerate 65 methods into nothing.

  Still yours to call, nothing running: mold (the .cargo/config.toml would
  double as the zeroclaw path override), the S6 legacy bus alias, the
  installer's s6d references, the CLAUDE.md polling rewrite,
  wait_for_runit_state, the runit state-change signals — and underneath all of
  it, Anna's arrival notary, which is still the thing blocking identity.

  The 141GB OVH qcow2 is untouched in target/downloads for you to mount.

✻ Baked for 2m 32s · done 11:04 AM

❯ before w continue i  want you to look at the zen-review audit and look for    
  anything glaring that is derand   but not seen as  dead in live system, or    
  elvated w2hen deprciiatede ...etc. ti is a thourough audit                    

  Listed 2 directories, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Let me cross-check the audit's claims against live reality, starting with the
  one that looks most suspicious — Spec 07 is marked PASS (100% Compliant) and
  its validation depends on netmaker:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

❯ audit was done before i removed netmaker                                      

● Understood — so the doc is just stale. But that makes the code the finding,
  not the audit:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● The gate is conditional on source_binding == ExactPeerIp. Whether that's live
  is the whole question:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● Err(_) => Self::ExactPeerIp — ExactPeerIp is the default when the env var is 
  unset. So this only stays dormant if something explicitly sets it:

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Confirmed live: OP_ORACLE_ASSERTION_SOURCE_BINDING=trusted-decoy-signature. So
  the netmaker peer-IP check is dormant, not firing — I'm not going to call it
  a live blocker.

  But it's a real latent one of exactly the class you asked about: ExactPeerIp 
  is the default when that env var is unset, and it validates against a network
  that no longer exists. Safety here rests entirely on one export in a shell
  script. Any container, test harness, or new host that runs the bridge without
  that run script silently gets source-binding against a dead overlay.

  Let me sweep the rest rather than stop at one:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Now I've got several. Verifying the ones that look glaring:

  Listed 1 directory, ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Six of the audit's PASS-evidence paths no longer exist. Let me separate
  "renamed" from "capability actually gone":

  Listed 1 directory, ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Found the glaring one. Recording it before I write it up, because it's a live
  policy inversion:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)
● Swept it. Findings, sorted by how much they'd bite you.

  1. The glaring one — deprecated, then given a working implementation

  /usr/local/bin/systemctl exists. 8088 bytes, installed 04:58 today.
  build-golden.sh:670 does it on purpose:

  run install -Dm755 "$SCRIPT_DIR/systemctl-shim" "$INSTALL_BIN/systemctl"

  …alongside systemd-unit-to-runit and op-convert-systemd-units at line 282.

  AGENTS.md and CLAUDE.md both say "Do not use systemctl or other foreign 
  service-manager CLIs." org.freedesktop.systemd1 isn't on the bus at all. So
  the guardrail — the command not existing — was replaced by a shim that makes
  the forbidden call succeed and answer plausibly. Every agent that reaches for
  systemctl status foo gets a real answer and never discovers it should have
  used sv.

  That's your "elevated when deprecated," exactly.

  2. Dead network still the default identity binding

  AssertionSourceBinding::from_env() → Err(_) => Self::ExactPeerIp. The default
  binds every OIA to assertion.netmaker_inner_ip, on an overlay that no longer
  exists — no wg interface, no 100.69.x.x, netclient not enabled. Live is saved
  only because the run script exports trusted-decoy-signature. Any container,
  test, or new host that runs the bridge without that shell line silently
  source-binds identity to a dead network.

  3. Three plugins pointed at absent bus names

  From earlier in the session, same class: systemd.rs, systemd_networkd.rs,
  packagekit.rs proxy to org.freedesktop.systemd1, network1, PackageKit — none
  owned, none activatable here. Whole outbound surfaces that fail on every call.

  4. The audit's PASS evidence — six paths, and the split matters

  ┌─────────────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┐
  │             cited path              │              reality               │
  ├─────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ op-blob/src/blob_writer.rs          │ renamed → blob.rs / catalog.rs     │
  ├─────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ op-grpc-bridge/src/descriptor.rs    │ renamed → plugin_grpc_gen.rs       │
  ├─────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ deploy/sbin/systemctl-shim          │ moved → deploy/runit/              │
  ├─────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ op-cognitive-mcp/src/main.rs        │ gone — lib-only now, deliberate    │
  ├─────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ op-plugins/…/systemd_autocreator.rs │ gone — capability landed in        │
  │                                     │ op-core/src/runit.rs               │
  ├─────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ op-identity/src/anna_scribe.rs      │ gone — deleted in fa1d334d         │
  └─────────────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────┘

  Three renames, three removals. The removals are fine individually — but note
  what they do to Spec 09, session-genesis-identity, marked PASS (100% 
  Compliant). Its two pieces of evidence are anna_scribe.rs:1-90 (deleted) and
  /dev/shm/opdbus/identity_sled.dat with the 152-byte mmap guard (not present,
  and SIGNALS.md's own header calls that file a retired compatibility artifact).

  So the one subsystem the audit certifies most confidently is the one that is
  currently non-functional — empty sled, no arrival notary, /mcp 401ing every
  caller. Not because the audit lied; because it was measuring a design that has
  since been removed out from under it.

  5. Smaller flag

  Spec 09 also certifies snowball "syncing every 15 minutes," and
  op-snowball/src/snapshot.rs offers interval options including "snapshot every
  minute." Timers, in a system whose stated invariant is "the system does not 
  watch, poll, or index." Worth a look, but I didn't chase whether those
  intervals are actually wired.

  ---

  The through-line is the same one you named this morning: nothing in this 
  system distinguishes "deliberately retired" from "accidentally broken." The
  systemctl shim is that failure taken one step further — the deprecated thing
  was given a working implementation under the canonical name, so deprecation
  became undetectable at the call site.

  Recorded #1 in SIGNALS with a concrete decision to make: drop the shim so it
  fails loudly, or keep it for third-party software that hardcodes systemctl but
  make it warn and name sv on every call. Silently succeeding is the only
  option that shouldn't stand.

  Build agent's still running the verification batch.

✻ Worked for 2m 56s · done 11:08 AM

❯ i forgot aqbout that one the blobs never comminicate with bridge              

● That's OD-32 on your board — "blobs sealed in SHM but unread at runtime." Let
  me verify whether that's still true:

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● The wiring exists — hydrate_reflection_from_shm() is called at server.rs:535
  and grpc_server.rs:924, and schema_loader.rs reads
  read_plugin_state_store_schema. So OD-32 may have been closed since. Let me
  check whether it actually works at runtime:

  Ran 2 shell commands (ctrl+o to expand)

● Two things here. First, your question:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Nothing found — but the log may have rotated. Note what's flooding it:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● That's a real find, and it's masking your question:

  The entire current log — all 1786 lines — is cognitive_mcp invoke_tool and 
  nothing else. 10:29:18 → 11:06:29, so ~48 calls/minute sustained for 37
  minutes, in bursts (12 calls in 1.3s at one point). No errors, no other
  messages, no startup lines. The storm rotated away the hydration log, which is
  why I couldn't answer your blob question from it.

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● The caller isn't in the workspace — it's an external D-Bus client hitting
  PluginV1.Call. Let me find it:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Only the bridge itself is on that bus right now — so the callers connect,
  fire, and disconnect. Let me see if it's still happening:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ identity                                                                      

❯ trying to lookup the sled                                                     

● That fits, and it closes the loop on everything today. The storm stopped at 
  11:06:29 — zero new lines in the last 20 seconds — after running 10:29:18 →
  11:06:29, 37 minutes, 1786 calls.

  Searched for 1 pattern (ctrl+o to expand)

● That rules out my theory — the identity dispatch never calls cognitive_mcp. So
  that storm was a client retrying invoke_tool to find the sled, not an
  internal loop. Yours, then, and it stopped.

  Still worth one note: 1786 identical calls from one client filled the log and
  erased the bridge's own startup record, including the hydration line I needed.
  svlogd rotates by size, so any client retry loop can destroy the system's
  boot evidence.

  Let me answer your actual question empirically instead of from logs:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Clean answer: the blobs do reach the bridge. 68 blobs, 67 served on D-Bus,
  every served plugin has a matching blob, no orphans. That's 1:1 — OD-32's
  "sealed but unread at runtime" looks closed.

  One blob isn't served: compact_mcp. Checking whether that's deliberate, since
  hydration filters on a retired list:

  Searched for 2 patterns (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ anna?                                                                         

● Anna's not in it — RETIRED_PLUGIN_IDS = &["compact_mcp", "netmaker"]. So
  nothing has formally retired her; she was just deleted.

  But that list turns up another contradiction of exactly the kind you asked me
  to hunt:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● On Anna: she isn't retired, just deleted. What survives is her identity, in
  wg_opdbus.rs — ANNA_SCRIBE_PRINCIPAL_ID = "did:op:service:anna-scribe", with
  plugin_ref pointing at wg_opdbus as her home. So she has a stable DID and a
  declared plugin home, and that home is the WireGuard plugin you're
  deprecating. Her method — notarize_arrival, the genesis call — is what's gone,
  and it's still the thing blocking identity.

  And the retired list turned up another one. RETIRED_PLUGIN_IDS = 
  &["compact_mcp", "netmaker"], yet compact MCP is load-bearing right now:

  - mcp_policy.rs:17 defines COMPACT_TOOL_NAMES — list_tools, search_tools,
    get_tool_schema, execute_tool
  - mcp_policy.rs:210 actively gates on them, plus invoke_tool / respond /
    register_tool
  - /etc/opdbus/mcp-audience-policy.json pins singleton_chatbot_principal_id — a
    live principal whose whole purpose is seeing compact MCP
  - CLAUDE.md calls compact-mcp the loopback chatbot surface, settled, "do not
    redesign"

  So compact_mcp is filtered out of reflection as retired while the policy layer
  treats it as the chatbot's entire tool surface. That's the inverse of the
  systemctl shim: there, a deprecated thing was given a working implementation;
  here, a load-bearing thing is flagged retired. Both make the live status
  unreadable from the code.

  That also fully explains the 68-vs-67 gap — one blob withheld by
  is_retired_plugin, deliberately. So your original question resolves cleanly:

  The blobs do communicate with the bridge. 68 sealed, 67 served, exact name
  match, zero orphans, and the single exception is the deliberate retired-list
  filter. OD-32's "sealed but unread at runtime" is closed — I'd mark it DONE on
  the wishlist.

  Two things I'd flag from this whole sweep as needing a decision rather than a
  fix:

  1. systemctl shim installed under the canonical name on a host that forbids it
     — the guardrail replaced by a working implementation
  2. compact_mcp retired-but-load-bearing — either it's the chatbot surface or
     it's retired; right now the code says both

  Both are recorded in SIGNALS. And the build agent is still running the dedup
  verification.
✻ Cogitated for 3m 23s · done 11:12 AM

❯ why is reflecton retired?                                                     

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)

● Let me read that policy function properly, because I may have inverted it:

  Ran 1 shell command (ctrl+o to expand)
  ⎿  You've hit your session limit · resets 1:50pm (UTC)
     /upgrade to increase your usage limit.

✻ Sautéed for 19s · done 11:12 AM